You and/or I.

In a sound and complete system, use is develop and/or develop is use. Meaning that I should reasonably invest in what I use and I should lovely use what I have invested in. It is not reasonable I work for something, and someone else takes its benefit! I must be the one who takes benefit of what I develop and use! The therefore I must put a check on almost everything I do. The check is Bitcoin.

But there is one issue in this, I shouldn't build everything again myself and suggest you do that too! I should be able to share my stuff with you so you can also share your stuff with me. But not to an alien. It is a contract between you and me to share code. But what Identifies you and I from an alien? I assume that I am not an alien. But I can not assume that you are also not an alien! Because then I may authorize an alien instead of you! We need a solution for this first and foremost so I can identify you from an alien.

I am not an alien because I honestly share everything I have with you! And that is my identity! And I protect my identity because I love to share everythign that I have with you. Therefore I just share the code with myself, with my own identity. Like this I work for everyone including myself except for my enemy which is legally unauthorized to use my work without explicit permission. And it is not an enemy when I authorize it as I secure my benefits first and foremost before any authorization.

I think this identity comes with the license of the code that we share with each other! A perpetual protocol as license and/or a license as a protocol which requires a name. I name it HGL, that gives you and my enemy all the rights that is needed to use and/or develop what you receive from me, and stops one essential right from you and my enemy which only my enemy and your enemy needs it! The right of redistribution with a modifying license! This is a contract between you and/or I and helps I identity you and honestly share everything that I have with you except giving anything to our obvious enemy. This practically gives a limited time to our shared enemy to join us, no one exists kinder than this with an enemy! No one exists more gracious and/or more merciful than this. And you need to agree with me.

The difference between this license/protocol with other licenses is that you and/or I name it! Therefore this is the last software license for a free and open source code. Therefore as the first and foremost principle of our civilization, we share no free software except in HGL and suggest to receive compensation in money for every second you spend on a software written in other licenses. This is the subject of the next memo.

We win.
